Morning, orchards?
I feel like we've said morning a lot of times this morning, but it doesn't change the fact that it's still a good morning, right?
I woke up this morning to a car that didn't want to start, so I can only assume that God's about to do something really cool in the building sometime, at some point today, so let's be ready for it.
The other day, I was having a conversation with a good friend of mine trying to figure out what this thing of peace actually is.
So in this conversation, I'm a good friend of mine, good friend of mine named Chat GPT.
I asked my good friend Chat GPT to write me a story of perfect peace, okay?
This is what they said.
The sun rises over a valley where no one hurries.
Light pours gently across terraced fields, catching on morning mist that curls like pale silk above the river.
In this place,
People wake not to alarms, but to birdsong.
Soft, layered, familiar.
Along a footpath lined with wild mint, two neighbors meet.
They exchange a smile that needs no translation.
There is no fear here, no competition to guard the day from.
Every person's well-being is understood to uplift the whole community.
So cooperation comes as naturally as breathing.
The village square is alive with quiet activity.
Children paint murals, their laughter rising like wind chimes.
Elders sit beneath a flowering tree, telling stories that teach without wounding.
Farmers trade baskets of produce without money because value is measured in nourishment, not numbers.
In the afternoon, a council gathers.
Ordinary people, each given equal voice.
Disagreements happen, but they're approached like puzzles, not battles.
Solutions emerge slowly, shaped by listening rather than victory.
The guiding principle is simple.
What brings harmony to all?
Beyond the village, animals roam freely without threat, and forests rise untouched, humming with life.
The river runs clean enough that one can see stones glittering on its floor.
At night, the community gathers by its banks, sharing food, stories, and quiet companionships.
Stars reflect on the water as though the sky has doubled itself.
There is work here, but no exploitation.
Rest, but no idleness, individuality, but no isolation.
No one is asked to be more than human and no one is allowed to be less.
Sleep comes easily in a world where nothing needs guarding.
Chat GPT has a pretty awesome scenario of perfect peace, right?
That I can pretty much imagine I can guarantee that all of us in this room are picturing our own form of perfect peace.
If an artificial intelligence
engine that has no heart, no feelings, no human connection, can come up with something that sounds that beautiful.
I can only imagine some of the things that are being thought of around the room.
Maybe your perfect piece is sitting on the beach somewhere, bearing your toes in the sand, waiting for those little sand fleas to nibble on them.
Maybe it's a cabin in the woods.
The beach scares me, guys.
I'm not going to lie.
Oceans are the worst.
Maybe yours is a cabin in the woods.
Maybe it's up in the mountains.
Maybe it's a hiking trail.
Maybe it's the library.
It, for me, is not the library.
But all of us have a scenario that we would love to live by that would be perfect peace.
But many of us in this room, I believe, also miss perfect peace every single day.
Because every day, we search for something, not someone.
So this morning, I want to begin a journey trying to discover, help us discover together that peace is a person.
It's not something to strive after, it's someone to get to know.
Isaiah 9, 6, says, for a child is born to us, a son is given to us.
The government will rest on his shoulders and he will be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting father, and prince of peace.
This Advent season, we pause to see the ways that our peace is found only in a person.
It's only through knowing Jesus that we can experience true and abundant peace in all situations.
He is the peace that brings calm to the storms of life.
He is the peace that brings clarity to the confusion of the world.
And he is the peace that passes all understanding.
So to get this started, we need to understand that peace comes through relationship, not circumstance.
I've got a really easy passage of scripture that we're going to know as soon as I get done reading it exactly what it means.
You ready for this?
Ephesians 2, starting in verse 14, says, for he himself is our peace, who has made the two groups one and has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility by setting aside in his flesh the law with its commands and regulations.
His purpose was to create in himself one new humanity out of the two, thus making peace.
And in one body,
to reconcile both of them to God through the cross by which he put to death their hostility.
He came and preached peace to you who were far away and peace to those who were near.
For through him, we both have access to the Father by one spirit.
Clear as day, we can move on, right?
There's a lot in here that I want to make sure we unpack so we understand what this is trying to say.
It opens up at the beginning of Ephesians talking about that there are these two groups that
The barrier between them has been destroyed.
We're trying to take these two groups of trying to make them one.
What the heck is going on here?
We're going to figure it out together with a little bit of a history lesson.
We're going to look at this section of scripture through two groups of people.
We have the Jews and we have the Gentiles.
The Jews, an Old Testament scripture, we can also look at as Israel, as God's chosen people who still struggled and still wavered back and forth between following God and other gods.
We can read story after story after story of Old Testament scripture, where God does these really amazing things and then Israel's all of a sudden like, nah, I don't know if I believe it anymore, okay?
Like there are some things that as I'm reading Old Testament scripture, absolutely blows my mind to see like God was literally separating a sea.
He made himself as a pillar of fire.
He spoke to you guys with his voice and you guys are still like, nah, I'm good.
Like I don't want any part of that.
Okay, the other group of people that we look at is the Gentiles.
These would be outsiders, people that were separated from God and would primarily worship other gods.
And a lot of New Testament scripture, we can even see a lot of Gentiles as potentially people who knew of Jesus, but there was a difference of knowing Jesus and actually like believing him and understanding him and doing the things that he was teaching.
Okay, so we have the Jews and we have the Gentiles.
Old Testament law had a strict separation of Jews and Gentiles.
all over the place in Old Testament scripture.
We can trace it all the way back to the call of Abraham to lead God's chosen nation, okay?
So by God choosing a group of people and saying, Abraham, you are going to be the guy that's going to lead my chosen people and you're gonna take him and do all these things, you're gonna take over this land, you're gonna leave your family and just follow me where I go, I got you.
The call of Abraham and God choosing a group of people means there was another group of people that didn't get chosen, right?
Those are the people that we read in a lot of the stories of whether it's Abraham or Moses or Joshua, where it just seems like place after place after place.
God's chosen people are going in, they're fighting, they're conquering, they're taking over the land that God had promised them because God is with this group of people and he's not with this group of people.
That's how we're reading it.
Mosaic law further separated outside nations to ensure full devoted worship of Yahweh God.
These were things like keeping the Sabbath.
If you've been around, which was for a while, you know that's even important to us, that we recognize and we participate in a day of rest.
There were rules for sacrifice.
There were rules for atoning for sins.
There were rules for the things you can and can't eat.
There were rules for the things that you can and can't wear.
There were a lot of rules that as we look back at some of that Old Testament law now, we can even see, man, it had to be almost impossible.
to follow those laws.
Like how can I control when my oxen falls in my neighbor's hole?
I don't understand.
But it just further demonstrates that we are in need of a savior Jesus.
There were things that had to be followed that Jews, that Israel was required to follow, but the Gentiles or the people that weren't God's chosen people were like, I don't know why you guys are doing that.
It's a little bit crazy.
There was purposeful separation that was distanced that created fear and unknown.
Israel was to be the light of the nation so it must remain pure.
There was a lot of very specific things that would say Israel or Jews or the people that are of God, you don't associate yourself with people that are not the people of God.
We even see that in the story when we even look at New Testament with a woman at the well.
Like there is no reason that Jesus should have been talking to a woman from Samaria, but guess what?
He was and it changed everything.
If we look at the New Testament, Jesus is bringing salvation
to all nations, this passage of Ephesians is saying we have these two groups of people, and Jesus is saying I don't know why we have these two groups of people because my job is to come into this world and take these two groups of people and bring them one because everybody has access to Jesus through a relationship with Him.
We are living in the New Testament version of Jesus and have the ability to know Jesus and to spend time with Jesus.
We have the ability to do so.
That doesn't mean we all do it all the time.
It doesn't mean we are forced to do it or it's a requirement.
We have the ability to know Jesus, to have a relationship with the person of Jesus.
There is no longer separation of who has access.
We're all invited to experience a life with him.
Lack of peace is the separation that we see in this Jew and Gentile.
There is a lack of peace, but God removed that separation through his son, Jesus.
So we see before Jesus, there was separation.
But through Jesus, there is salvation, right?
We're away from the separation.
We're in the version of salvation.
Peace can't be a political party.
Peace can't be a race.
Peace can't be a gender.
Peace can't be an economic status.
Peace can't be popularity.
Peace can't be possessions.
And peace can't be anything of this world.
Peace can only be through the person of Jesus.
We're gonna unpack that a little bit more as we go this morning, but if you are here and you don't have a relationship with Jesus, finding peace is gonna be really hard.
Knowing the person of Jesus is what brings about peace on your life.
Relationships take intentionality and they take work.
But Jesus loves you so much and wants you to experience his peace.
And it's actually so important to him that peace was purchased.
John 14, 27 says, peace, I leave with you.
My peace, I give you.
I do not give to you as a world gives.
Do not let your hearts be troubled and do not be afraid.
If you're in the room today and you only hear one thing out of this whole message, this is what I want you to hear.
Jesus loves you and he died for you.
No matter who you are, where you're at in your relationship with Jesus, what you believe, understand, don't know, trying to figure out Jesus loves you and he died for you.
That is the most important message.
If you're in the room today and you don't have a personal relationship with Jesus, you will be searching for peace your entire life and never find true peace.
Actually, just recently, one of my favorite musical artists, NF, released a new album, absolutely insane album.
If you are into rap or hip hop at all, listen to some NF, he's crazy.
But he has a line in one of his new songs,
that struck me really deep when I heard it for the first time.
If you don't know about NF, he's this guy, he's a younger guy that grew up in a really broken, really hard home situation.
His dad has pretty much never been around.
His mom died of an overdose at a really young age.
He raps about it in a lot of his songs.
But he's kind of worked his way out of this darkness,
set of hand, the set of cards in his hand that that he talks about in some of his songs and he's worked his way up and he talks about the fame that he has and the tours that he has and and the money and the cars and like pretty the houses that he has like how can he complain when he's got all of this stuff but he says in one of his songs that he's starting to realize in this new album that things are spiraling a little bit and he as he battles with mental mental illness one of the things is he's
in this new song is he's having a conversation with God.
And in this conversation, it says, you gave me a false sense of peace just to show me what peace really is.
When that line came across, like, it hit me really hard because it fits so well with what this Advent season, this, uh, this week of peace that we're focusing on, that if you don't
know the person of Jesus and you don't believe and understand that Jesus died on the cross for the forgiveness of your sins, you will be searching for peace your whole life and never find it.
You will only find something that fills a whole temporarily, but it will fade away.
Jesus paid the ultimate sacrifice for you so that through him, you can have perfect peace.
But the things we find in our life, the scenarios that we put ourselves in, whether it's on the beach or in the mountains or on a nice little hike,
That may bring peace, but it will fade.
Because if you're anything like me, you will experience something that brings you hope.
It'll bring you joy.
It'll bring you peace.
It'll bring you happiness.
But in just a split second, it can all disappear.
Something comes up, like you wake up in the morning, you go try to start your car and it says, no, thank you, not this morning.
And all of a sudden the peace that you feel like you have just vanishes.
It disappears because there's a difference in the things that we're trying to use to fill that hole versus truly understanding and knowing peace in our life.
Romans 5 once says, therefore, since we have been justified through faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.
If you are a Bible nerd, you're going to enjoy this section for a second.
Because when we see a section of scripture like that, this is therefore, since we have been justified through faith, we have to ask the question, what's therefore, therefore?
It matters, okay?
What is the therefore, therefore?
This is saying in Romans 5, 1, therefore, it's saying, because Jesus died on the cross for our sins and was raised to life, we have peace through Jesus.
Therefore, since you have been justified through faith, therefore, because Jesus died on the cross for you,
and he raised from the dead for you, we have peace with God through Jesus.
If we don't believe that Jesus is who he says he is, we will never experience true peace.
We never will.
I want you to think about it for a minute.
There's a couple of things I wanna break down here.
I wanna talk through the life of Jesus, because if we don't believe that Jesus is who he says he is, why does any of this matter?
We will never experience true peace.
Have you stopped to think about the birth of Jesus recently?
Like we know the story so well.
We blow right past it.
We miss it often because Jesus was born into the world and he did his ministry and he died on the cross and he rose from the dead.
We could have a relationship with Jesus.
All true and amazing.
But Jesus' birth was like an absolute anomaly.
It doesn't make sense.
An angel appeared to a young virgin mother and said, hey, you're gonna have a kid.
And she said, huh?
She said, what?
I, putting myself in, in Mary's situation, if I'm just chilling, having a good time, okay, hanging out.
And this thing all of a sudden appears in front of me and says, Hey, guess what?
You're going to have a kid that was not on my plans right now that can't, it can't happen.
It can't, I don't, it doesn't make any sense.
And then she heard this angel tell her that she's going to have a kid.
And I bet you nothing changed about her right away.
Right?
Like Jesus wasn't like put into her at like her being six months pregnant already.
Okay?
Like still had to go through the process of all of that.
And I'm sure a young virgin mother, even going through the birth process was like, what the heck is going on?
What is happening?
Like it is mind blowing, but Jesus was still given to a young mother in her womb.
So he can be born, have the mother of Mary and grow up and live a life.
We get to the ministry of Jesus, and we hear all the cool stories about the ministry of Jesus, right?
We hear the things that he did.
He turned water into wine, he walked on water, he healed people, he raised people from the dead, like all of the things that we hear about Jesus, right?
We actually start to hear them so much that sometimes they lose the power that they actually possess, okay?
They just become so common to us that they lose the power that they possess.
But the things that Jesus did, again, didn't make sense.
Like they are mind-blowing, to think that a guy has the ability to pick up mud off the ground and spit in it and then rub it on somebody's eyes and they get their sight back.
And we read these stories now and you think, oh, yeah, that's cool.
I knew he was gonna do that.
But like, we miss how amazing it is, the death of Jesus.
I just, in my secret place time, I'm going through this Bible reading plan that every day of the week has a different
Genre of scripture to read so you don't get stuck in the same thing over and over and over again, but just yesterday I was reading about the The the arrest and the crucifixion of Jesus and what struck me even yesterday is how Confident and calm and still Jesus is through the whole thing Like he has the ability to stop it right like he has the ability to change
how that's gonna work if he wanted to.
But he was confident and comfortable in his calling in the place that God wanted him to be.
He had so much perfect peace that he just went along, he went with the flow of everything that was going on.
And then, let's talk about his resurrection.
Somebody that was once dead is no longer dead.
And again, we hear about it and we learn about it so often that we blow past it and forget the power that the resurrection of the human body actually has.
But if we don't believe that Jesus is who he says he is, we'll never experience true peace because we're always going to be trying to find the answers and find things that fill it.
If peace is a person, we not only have to know and believe in that person, but we also have to understand that peace is experienced through his presence.
If you've been around Richwoods for any length of time, you'll know that experiencing and encountering Jesus is massively important to us.
We want and we desire for every person that walks in this building to have an experience and an encounter with Jesus.
I actually have taught students for years that words of man can be really convincing, right?
At some point in time, somebody convinced you to be here.
Somebody convinced you that the things Jesus does is the things that he did and we believed it and we understood it.
I know just as easily someone could convince you that none of it is true.
Because words of man can be really convincing.
But what I wanna teach to students is that experiencing and encountering Jesus, when you experience Jesus, when you feel him working in your life, when you see him working in other people's life, when you watch somebody get dunked in the baptism tank, and you hear their story about how they're finding and following Jesus, my eight-year-old just got baptized a couple weeks ago, and she has blown apart my faith and this idea of a child like faith.
When we experience and encounter Jesus, nobody is gonna argue that away from you.
Words of man cannot take that experience away from you when you know that he is working and moving in your life.
And when you can feel that, when you can see that, when you can experience it, then we can experience a perfect peace.
But here's what I've learned recently about experiencing peace through his presence.
In January of 2024, my mom started to experience some pretty intense pain, some pretty severe pain.
not knowing what was happening with it, not really understanding.
It got so bad around her stomach area that even bending over to put on shoes to sit down, to tie them was excruciatingly painful and miserable.
So she went to the doctor, got things checked out, got it figured out, whatever this discomfort was, and found that there was a bunch of fluid buildup and they drained the
ridiculous amount of fluid from her stomach.
This was all taken and tested, all the things that they do with finding unknown things in a human body.
And in February of 2024, my mom was diagnosed with ovarian cancer.
And since January of 2024, she has battled this cancer through chemo treatments, through doctor's appointments,
through walking allies alongside her own mother who was also going through ovarian cancer at the same time, trying to take care of me who I need a lot of help being taken care of, okay?
Pray for my wife too, please.
But since February of 2024 is walking through this whole process, and what I've learned about experiencing peace through the presence of Jesus is my mom has the most unexplainable peace that I've ever seen.
I have spent myself countless nights, hours, days, yelling, angry conversation, asking questions, why?
Trying to ask God how this is even remotely fair.
If you've gone through cancer yourself or you've watched somebody go through it, it sucks.
It's terrible.
And I'm a fixer.
my nature and I want to do everything to fix it.
I wish I could fix it.
Psalm 29, 11 says, the Lord gives strength to his people and the Lord blesses his people with peace.
Here's what I know through watching my mom and her cancer journey.
My mom knows Jesus and I promise you if you ask her, which you can't and she's sitting up here.
If you ask her,
She will tell you that being diagnosed with cancer is one of the biggest blessings she's ever received.
If you ask her, she'll tell you countless stories of how she's been able to help other people find and follow Jesus through what she knows to be true about her relationship with Jesus.
She will tell you all the stories of the people that she has walked alongside of as they're going through their own medical diagnosis, whether it's cancer or not.
She'll tell you the ways that
She has found comfort.
She has found peace.
She has found confidence in knowing that it doesn't matter what the diagnosis says.
If you know the person of Jesus, you know we are going at some point anyways.
Whether it's the cancer or whatever, she will tell you that cancer and the diagnosis has been one of the biggest blessings in her life because the Lord has given her strength and the Lord has blessed her with peace.
A peace that passes all understanding.
I hope I can find peace like that someday.
Sometimes when I think I know peace and I'm reminded of that piece, I know my piece has a long way to go.
So let me ask you this.
Do you know peace in this room right now?
Do you know peace to the single mom in the room that is trying as hard as you can to be everything for your kids?
Do you know peace?
Notice on that question up there that peace is capitalized for a reason because peace is a person.
To the patient in the room that received your own diagnosis, do you know peace?
To the husband in the room that is working countless hours, especially this time of year, to be the provider for your family, do you know peace?
To the person in the room laying in bed at night, feeling the weight of the world on your shoulders.
Do you know peace?
To the person in the room that is thinking about taking their own life into their own hands, even if you're sitting here this morning.
Luke 2 14 says, suddenly,
The angel was joined by a vast host of others, the armies of heaven, praising God and saying, glory to God in highest heaven and peace on earth to those who God is pleased.
If you're in the room this morning and Jesus isn't the Lord of your life, if you're in the room this morning and you don't know peace, you can leave this building with peace.
Do not miss that opportunity.
Don't miss the opportunity to leave this building this morning, to walk out these doors, to go out into the Commons, to freeze your butt off as soon as those doors open, and try to survive the world.
Don't do it unless you know the person of peace.
Because I promise you, when life's hardest battles come at you, when the struggle hits, when the questions arise, when the frustration happens, when the anger surfaces,
Just want a little side note, like it's okay to be angry with God.
He wants your anger just as much as he wants your praise.
He wants all of you.
But when those moments hit, who you know Jesus to be, the Prince of Peace, is what makes it all okay.
Jet GBT may be able to describe a perfect world of peace, but let me describe to you the peace that I discovered just this week.
I'm sitting by the fireplace in my living room, reading Psalm 63 in the quiet of my home.
As the sun comes up, I start to hear little voices and footsteps throughout my house.
My girls are getting their morning started by finding our elf Connie, who's probably up to no good, and ripping open a bag of mini muffins and leaving crumbs everywhere they go.
I continue to read
When verse three of Psalm 63 says, your unfailing love is better than life itself.
How I praise you.
I take in a deep breath and I know that everything is going to be okay.
Thank you Jesus for being my peace.
Father God, we thank you for today.
We thank you for your son Jesus.
We thank you for the honor and the privilege of being able to know him.
God, you could have kept Jesus all to yourself.
You could have sent him to this earth to do what he needed to do, brought him back up to heaven and said, they still rejected him, so we'll try again another time.
But you didn't.
You gave us the ability to know peace.
Father, right now I pray over this room
Anybody that might be in this room who is fighting to know peace, struggling to understand where the relationship with Jesus sits, struggling and fighting to know what to do next.
I pray right now that you can give them your peace.
You can allow them to feel the presence of your son and their life.
Father, we thank you for the presence of your son joining us in this room this morning.
Be with us as we continue to worship you and lift your name high.
And be with us as we walk out of this building, knowing that it is only peace that passes all understanding, that we need your peace.
We give this time over to you, Father.
We honor you and glorify you with our voices, with our words, with our hearts,
We pray that it is a sweet aroma to you this morning.
It's your son's precious name, we pray.
Amen.